---
layout: post
title: "Scraping Twitter and Reddit Data (Tran-Trinh)"
author: Nathan Tran-Trinh
date: 2021-02-28 12:24:54 -0500
categories: trantrinh
---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
```

## Reddit Data Collection

The vast majority of the work I did over the past two weeks has been in the realm of data collection. The RedditExtractoR package has been a great aid in obtaining data based on certain parameters. I identified four subreddits of interest, those being r/Conservative, r/ShitLiberalsSay, r/Breadtube and r/Politics. These four subreddits represent different popular points of political view, being far-right, far-left with focuses on socialism and social justice for the middle two, and centre-left respectively. Using the get_reddit function, I scraped a large amount of data from each of these subreddits, focusing on the presence of buzzwords such as MAGA, cuck, socialist and liberal. I intend to further expand this scraping, although I am likely to use only a percentage of all that I obtain, in order to expand the number of buzzwords I search for as well as searching for subreddits with high subscriber count and overall activity of different political persuasions, one of interest being r/stupidpol whom are economically leftist (predominantly communist and socialist userbase) but with a heavy disdain for social justice and political correctness concepts. 

One recent development on the Reddit backend that makes this more challenging is the banning of some of the most popular politically charged subreddits, such as r/The_Donald and r/ChapoTrapHouse. I have tentatively been able to find scrapes from several years ago for these subreddits, but the age of the data raises concerns of cross-applicability with the data I scraped myself. I am also looking into seeing if I can scrape patriots.win which is the offshoot of r/The_Donald that utilizes much of the same layout and formatting as reddit, though all attempts thus far have not been fruitful.

## Twitter Data Collection

Collecting data from Twitter proved to be a much more challenging feat, thanks to the limitations of Twitter's API. Frequently I would run into notifications that the rate limit has been exceeded, which would halt my efforts for at least an hour. Using the search_tweets function from the rtweets library was otherwise intuitive, I simply had to limit the number of tweets to search for in total.

Additionally, I derived subsets from the collected datasets where only tweets that mention another Twitter handle are included. This is a crucial step in analyzing the social ties and networks of those who utilize certain buzzwords frequently. Due to the lack of completeness in my data collection I have yet to visualize this, but social tie mapping and word clouds will be easy to develop once I have more complete datasets.
