---
layout: post
title: "The Study of Academic Communities (Polanco)"
author: Diego Polanco
date: 2021-03-28 12:24:54 -0500
categories: polanco
---


I have already finished the work to get the metadata available at UMass's website for each dissertation and build my data set of interest. Thus, it's time to develop my project's motivation and the research question that I'll be pursuing.   

My motivation is to develop a methodological framework that allows me to study academic communities. Academic communities are essential in the production and reproduction of ideas and beliefs in capitalist societies.  They can either contribute to society's general interest through scientific discoveries or become intellectual leadership of a historical bloc by producing the set of ideas and technologies of domination that the ruling class needs to impose its hegemony in a given capitalist society. 

```
#Setting up some libraries 
library(tidyverse)
library(knitr)
#library(devtools)
#library(tidytext)
library(dplyr)
library(tidyverse)
library(quanteda)
library(curl)
library(rvest)
library(reshape)
library(broom)
library(igraph)
library(snowboot)

```

In particular, my interest is to study the academic community that I belong to. In recent years, I always have noticed that sometime later, after a colleague defends her dissertation, it usually gets published in the ScholarWorks site of UMass, Amherst. ScholarWorks is a digital showcase of the research and scholarly output of members of the UMass community. It works as a repository administered by UMass Libraries and serves as a permanent digital archive for these academic materials. 

I have always been interested in my colleagues' work because I have the feeling that nowadays, people are so overwhelmed and stuck in their work that it gets hard to take a look at what another grad student has been working on. With that curiosity in my mind is how I got to UMass' ScholarWorks site of the Econ department. However, I still was far from finding the time to sit and read all the material my colleagues from the Econ department have produced recently.  I was even farther from reviewing everything available from the past! Then, my curiosity about data science lead me to a possible solution: code an algorithm treating text-as-data that "reads for me." Or at least find one that could help me organize piles of knowledge produced by a single academic community! 

# Motivation 

Even though I have explained why I'm motivated by this topic, it isn't relevant if I cannot argue why studying the processes of PhD training and knowledge-producing at the UMass Economics department matters.  I will present three arguments in this regard. 

First, it would be relevant for any social scientist outside of the heterodox economics community to know why this is a worthwhile field of knowledge. And to argue that first, it is essential to define what it is. 
Lawson (2006) argues that it is an umbrella encompassing various theories opposing modern mainstream economics. Therefore the question arises. What is there in common to oppose between different schools of thought? Some might argue that the mainstream is neoclassical theory-oriented to advocate for laissez-fair policies. However, it is safe to state that neoclassical theory can provide different, sometimes contradictory, policy interventions ranging from market fundamentalism to active state intervention. Therefore, it is possible to identify policy prescriptions that can be arrived at either from neoclassical or heterodox theories.  So the answer to "what is the mainstream?" cannot be reduced to a laissez-fair oriented approach nor neoclassical theories. 

Lawson's answer to the question is that mainstream or orthodox economics present two common features. Firstly, the study of optimizing individual behavior without proper consideration of social structures. Secondly, there is a leaning in the orthodoxy to a particular type of mathematical formalization characterized by the absence of self-reflexive capabilities about their study object. Thus, methodological reductionism arises as a result. On the contrary, heterodox approaches are different categorizations of social reality engaging in a conflict with those theories understanding the social realm as the aggregation of isolated atoms without emergent properties. The emphasis on different categories such as "fundamental uncertainty" (post-Keynesian), "social reproduction" (feminist), "class conflict" (Marxist), and so on, is where relies on the pluralism of heterodoxy. 

There have been two significant development hubs of heterodox economic theory in the North-Atlantic space during the twentieth century (Lee, 2009).   On the one hand,  Cambridge school where Keynes's protégés developed the theoretical basis of what is known today as post-Keynesian economics. I refer to the large body of works inspired by Michael Kalecki, Joan Robinson, Roy Harrod, Nicholas Kaldor, Maurice Dobb, and Piero Sraffa.  These authors not only took over Keynes' work. Dobb and Sraffa also engaged in critical discussions of Marxist theory (the former) and Marxist historiography (the latter), building theoretical bridges and dialogues between post-Keynesian and Marxist theory. 

On the other hand, the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, was a crucial player in developing the radical political economy in the United States. Under a growing upheaval context because of the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War, growing space for heterodox economies arose in the United States. Once a traditional and quiet in the doldrums economics department, the University of Massachusets, Amherst, decided to establish a radical economic department did a package of five hirings, including two post-modern Marxists (Wolf and Resnick) and two analytical Marxists (Bowles and Gintis). Alongside other departments that also engaged in a differentiation strategy to develop an economics department - such as the University of Utah, American University, and the New School - UMass, Amherst became the loci for developing economic heterodoxy.  Despite its Marxist roots, during the late XX century, it created a pluralistic PhD program that has allowed students from all over the world to have a basic knowledge of the Marxist political economy and engage in other fields such as development, environmental and feminist economics. 

None heterodox school of economics have developed in isolation from each other. Dow (2011) clarifies that its development has happened not only in their respective departments but also through other means such as conferences, journals, crossed hirings, and paper co-authoring that have allowed a pluralistic but coherent academic community.  Thus, it should be relevant for everybody in the heterodox economics academic community to reflect on our past to understand it and build a better way to move forward. 

# Research Question 

My research project's contribution to reflect on our academic community is to study the UMass economics department at a micro level while developing a methodological framework capable of studying any academic community through a mix of network, text, and causal analysis methods.  

Any given social network reveals individual agents' relative positionality belonging to the network.  Network analysis allows producing data about positionality. For example, to measure the degree of centrality an agent has in relation to the network. On the other hand, text analysis allows reducing the dimensionality of a given corpus of text using topic models identifying common clusters in the structure of a text. 

The database I have built allows me to identify a network through the relation advisee-advisor. Any UMass alumni have more than one advisor in her committee (currently, the rule is two members from the department and one outside member). The overlapping of advisors in dissertation committees produces a hierarchical network where advisors are horizontally networked while sitting in the same committee. In contrast, the networked relation of the advisee with other agents is necessarily through her advisors. Of course, this simplifies reality because graduate students have meaningful everyday experiences of sharing classes, material interests, and workplaces. However, I assume that in their written work, the most significant influence is those who officially review their dissertations. 

Thus, the research question for the UMass Economics department's case, in particular, is the following: Does the relative positionality of a graduate student influence the content of her dissertation? The operationalization of this would be done by measuring indexes of her positionality using network analysis and the content of its dissertation by using models for text-processing and defining a topic or another technique that we'll learn in this class later. 


# Preliminary Network Visualization


My knowledge of network analysis in R is rudimentary. I had kind of a hard time trying to code a good visualization for the network however, I give up to get it done for this post. It seems that network visualization is a "whole science" in itself and that there are different algorithms to optimize the visualization in function of the size and shape of the network. However, if I get rid of the labels I can get a decent visualization of the network that I have described before. Given the overlapping advising in dissertation commitees and the hierarchical nature of advising we can appreciate the following plot. 

```

rm(list = ls())
#Open the data set built previously 
load("df_bp3.RData")


#I need to reshape the data frame for network analysis 
net_df <- df %>% 
          select(n,name,adv1:adv5) %>%
          arrange(name) %>%
          melt(id=c("n","name")) %>% 
          filter(value!="NA", value!="")


#First we need to do some "name cleaning" 
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Leonce Ndikumana, Ph.D."] <- "Leonce Ndikumana"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="L?once Ndikumana"] <- "Leonce Ndikumana"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Robert N. Pollin"] <- "Robert Pollin"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="David M. Kotz"] <- "David Kotz"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Carol E. Heim"] <- "Carol Heim"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Augustin Lao-Montes"] <- "Agustin Lao-Montes"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Adam D. Honig"] <- "Adam Honig"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Gerald A. Epstein"] <- "Gerald Epstein"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Gerald Epstein, Ph.D."] <- "Gerald Epstein"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="James Heintz, Ph.D."] <- "James Heintz"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="James K. Boyce"] <- "James Boyce"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Kevin P. Gallagher"] <- "Kevin Gallagher"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Michael A. Ash"] <- "Michael Ash"
net_df$value[net_df$value=="Krista  Harper"] <- "Krista Harper"
net_df[which(startsWith(net_df$value, "Mwangi")),][4] <- "Mwangi wa Githinji"

#Now we can build some objects for network analysis
edges <- net_df %>% 
  tibble(from = value, to = name) %>% 
  select(from,to) %>% 
  as.matrix()

#Now we can present some stuff using the igraph to visualize the network I'm aiming to identify 
inet <-graph_from_edgelist(edges, directed=TRUE) 


l <- layout_randomly(inet)
plot(inet, 
     layout=l*2,
     edge.arrow.size=.5, 
     edge.curved=.5,
     edge.color="black",
     vertex.color="orange",
     vertex.label=NA)

```


In following post I need to dig deeper in network analysis in order to get an optimal visualization of the network alongside including some text analysis that we'll study next tuesday in class. I feel that at least I got a little bit familiar with the igraph package which was not easy. 


