---
layout: post
title: "Understanding Ecology through Coquerel's Sifaka (Suzzi)"
author: Amanda Suzzi
date: 2021-03-28 12:24:54 -0500
categories: suzzi
---

This is the fourth installment of "Understanding Ecology through Coquerel's Sifaka". As a recap, text analysis is rarely used in ecology and conservation, but can be a useful tool to rapidly analyze a body of literature. My primary goal is to see how the growth in ecological topics has changed in the past 35 years using Coquerel's Sifaka as a case study. 


  In the 60 mya since their common ancestor colonized the island, lemurs displayed extraordinary adaptive radiation into diverse forms and functions adapted to nearly every ecological niche. During the middle Eocene climatic optimum (MECO), ~40 Mya, the family Indriidae (Sifakas, Woolly lemurs, and Indri) broke away from the larger grouping of Lemuriformes and evolved alongside its sister lineages: Lepilemuridae, Cheirogaleidae, Lemuridae. The sifakas (Propithecus, the largest lemur) include several species: P. perrieri, P. candidus, P. edwardsi, P. coquereli, P. diadema, P. tattersalli, and P. verreauxi. Most Propithecus spp. occur at extremely low densities in small, isolated patches of forest, which suggests accelerated cladogenesis wherein geographic  microhabitats promote speciation. Until 2004, P. coquereli was considered a subspecies of P. verreauxi and is one of the most critically endangered and least studied primates in the world. 


  The first mention of *P. Coquereli* comes from volumes eight and nine (1875) of Alfred Grandidiers  *L'Histoire physique, naturelle et politique de Madagascar*. However, the popularity of the topic began to grow at the turn of the 21st century (1978-2000 avg = 0.4/year; 2000-2020 avg = 3.5/year). In general, this topic has shown to be relevant mostly to the USA (n=43), which has accumulated the largest number of publications, with the UK (5), Canada (4), France (4), and Germany (4) following. GANZHORN and  LEHMAN were the most productive authors that mention *P. Coquereli* with 5 documents each. “Scents and sensibility: information content of olfactory signals in the ring tailed lemur, Lemur catta” (Scordato & Drea 2007) and “Relative growth of the limbs and trunk in sifakas: heterochronic, ecological, and functional considerations” (Ravosa et al 1993), have been cited the most. The most relevant sources are The American Journal of Physical Anthropology (n=14), the American Journal of Primatology (11), and the International Journal of Primatology (10). Publications tend to be grouped by behavior, evolution, diversity, and conservation. 

The research questions I am trying to answer include:

1.   Which topics are the most popular?
2.   How have those topics changed over time?
3.   Is this following the general trends in ecology?
4.   What are future reseach directions?

```{r}
if (!require('devtools')) install.packages('devtools'); library('devtools')
if (!require('tidytext')) install.packages('tidytext'); library('tidytext')
if (!require('plyr')) install.packages('plyr'); library('plyr')
if (!require('tidyverse')) install.packages('tidyverse'); library('tidyverse')
if (!require('quanteda')) install.packages('quanteda'); library('quanteda')
if (!require('rvest')) install.packages('rvest'); library('rvest')
if (!require('quanteda.textplots')) install.packages('quanteda.textplots'); library('quanteda.textplots')
if (!require('cleanNLP')) install.packages('cleanNLP'); library('cleanNLP')
if (!require('stringr')) install.packages('stringr'); library('stringr')
if (!require('bibliometrix')) install.packages('bibliometrix'); library('bibliometrix')
library(reshape2)
library(ggplot2)
options(repr.plot.width=15, repr.plot.height=8)
cnlp_init_udpipe()
```

# Data
The 'bibliometrix' package has been a great aid in converting a .bib file to a corpus. I searched Web of Science ("propithecus verreauxi coquereli") OR  ("propithecus coquereli") OR ("p. coquereli") and downloaded the complete .bib file from the serach results. This results in a corpus of 79 documents. This is much lower than the estimated >1500 articles parsed via Google scholar, likely due to many unpublished dissertations or smaller journals that are not included in the Web of Science. 

```{r}
setwd('C:/Users/funke/Documents/GitHub/TextasData/')
d<-convert2df("WOSsavedrecs.bib", format="bibtex", dbsource="wos")
r=biblioAnalysis(d)
```

# 1. Which topics are the most popular?

Descriptive analysis provides some snapshots about the annual research development, the top productive authors, papers, countries and most relevant keywords.

```{r}
summary(r)

plot(r)
```

Conceptual structure is often used to understand the topics covered by scholars (so-called research front) and identify what are the most important and the most recent issues. 

```{r}
NetMatrix <- biblioNetwork(d, analysis = "co-occurrences", network = "keywords", sep = ";")
net=networkPlot(NetMatrix, normalize="association", n = 50, Title = "Keyword Co-occurrences", type = "auto", 
size.cex=TRUE, size=25, remove.multiple=T, edgesize = 10, labelsize=2,label.cex=TRUE,label.n=10,edges.min=2)
CS <- conceptualStructure(d,field="ID", minDegree=4, k.max=5, stemming=FALSE)
```

#2.   How have those topics changed over time?

Dividing the whole timespan in different timeslices and comparing the conceptual structures is useful to analyze the evolution of topics over time.


```{r}
KWlist <- keywordAssoc(d, sep = ";",n = 10, excludeKW = NA)

# list of first 10 Keywords plus
names(KWlist)

topKW=KeywordGrowth(d, Tag = "ID", sep = ";", top=10, cdf=TRUE)
# Plotting results
DF=melt(topKW, id='Year')
ggplot(DF,aes(Year,value, group=variable, color=variable))+
  ylab("Number of papers") +  
  scale_x_continuous(breaks = 0:9999) +
  theme_classic() +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = -30)) +
  geom_smooth(se=F)
```

It seems like the keywords are clustered in 4 groups without much overlap: behavior, evolution, diversity, and conservation. Studies in each of these groups have been growing for the past 15 years, since the establishment of the Commission for the Protected Areas System of Madagascar, SAPM.

Next post will address my final two objectives:


Is this following the general trends in ecology?
