---
layout: post
title: "Understanding Ecology through Coqueral's Sifaka (Suzzi)"
author: Amanda Suzzi
date: 2021-04-18 12:24:54 -0500
categories: suzzi
---


This is the fifth installment of "Understanding Ecology through Coquerel's Sifaka". 

Last post, we answered "Which topics are the most popular?". It seems like the keywords are clustered in 4 groups without much overlap: behavior, evolution, diversity, and conservation. 

We also answered "How have those topics changed over time?". Studies in each of these groups have been growing for the past 15 years (1978-2000 avg = 0.4/year; 2000-2020 avg = 3.5/year). Two things happened in 2005, the establishment of the Commission for the Protected Areas System of Madagascar, SAPM, and the declaration that Coquerel's Sifaka is a species, not a subspecies of P. verreauxi. Due to several taxonomic revisions by Russell Mittermeier, Colin Groves, and others, the number of recognized lemur species has grown from 33 species and subspecies in 1994 to approximately 100 in 2008, divided into five families and 15 genera.

This increase in literature could be due to either event. Thus, I will test this based on the literature from ruffed lemurs of the genus *Varecia* which has not chaged taxonomy since 1962; if the creation of SAPM is the cause, we will see the same spike in literature, otherwise it will be an effect of the species acknowledgement. 


```
library(bibliometrix)
library(reshape2)
library(ggplot2)
```

# Data
As a reminder, I searched Web of Science ("propithecus verreauxi coquereli") OR  ("propithecus coquereli") OR ("p. coquereli") and downloaded the complete .bib file from the search results (n=79). Now, I do the same for ("Varecia") (n=392).

```
d_coquereli<-convert2df("WOSsavedrecs.bib", format="bibtex", dbsource="wos")
d_Varecia<-convert2df("savedrecs.bib", format="bibtex", dbsource="wos")
```


## Coquerel's Sifaka


```

topKW=KeywordGrowth(d_coquereli, Tag = "ID", sep = ";", top=10, cdf=TRUE)
# Plotting results
DF=melt(topKW, id='Year')
ggplot(DF,aes(Year,value, group=variable, color=variable))+
  ylab("Number of papers") +  
  scale_x_continuous(breaks = 0:9999) +
  theme_classic() +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = -30)) +
  geom_smooth(se=F)
```

## Ruffed Lemur

```
topKW2=KeywordGrowth(d_Varecia, Tag = "ID", sep = ";", top=10, cdf=TRUE)
# Plotting results
DF=melt(topKW2, id='Year')
ggplot(DF,aes(Year,value, group=variable, color=variable))+
  ylab("Number of papers") +  
  scale_x_continuous(breaks = 0:9999) +
  theme_classic() +
  theme(axis.text.x = element_text(angle = -30)) +
  geom_smooth(se=F)
```


Because the increase in each category of Varecia literature seems linear, the increase in Coquerel's Sifaka around 2005 is an effect of the species acknowledgement, even though I included "propithecus verreauxi coquereli" in my search terms. 

