---
layout: post
title: "Tran-Trinh: Political Profiles Online"
author: Nathan Tran-Trinh
date: 2021-02-14 12:24:54 -0500
categories: tran-trinh firstpost
---
My Research Project is focused around social media, buzzwords and the role of both in affecting the political profile of people online. Tentatively, my research question is "How does the density of certain language correlate with the average political leanings of the userbases of different social media websites?" with an additional question of "Within specific social media websites, is high density of certain buzzwords correlated with subsets of socially insular political bubbles?"

The growth of the internet has morphed the entire world at a remarkably fast pace, with accessibility in the United States jumping from 14% in 1995 (Foz & Rainie, 2014) to 90% as of 2019 (Pew Research Center, 2019). Brick-and-mortar stores are rapidly falling out of favor due to the convenience of online shopping, while phenomenons like piracy and streaming have resulted in major strategic shifts across entire industries such as that of music or television. All of these phenomena are further exacerbated by massive geopolitical events such as the current COVID-19 pandemic, or massive global economic recessions such as that of 2008. On a more individualistic front, the rise of social media platforms has morphed social interactions, information consumption and many other facets of human behavior to a widespread degree, with nearly three-quarters of adults in this country active on at least one social media site (Pew Research Center, 2019) and 20% of adults in the United States claiming to use social media as a primary news source (Geiger, 2019).

The effects that this has held on politics, both domestic and global, is blatantly apparent on an abstract level yet challenging to fully assess, made more difficult by the wide variety of websites and their privately-owned nature. Some of the most popular social media websites such as Facebook and Instagram are nearly impossible to scrape for data due to the highly private nature of their APIs, while other social media outlets like Snapchat are formatted in a way that makes text analysis a poor fit. Tentatively, I hope to utilize data from Twitter (as I should have API access), Reddit, and TikTok. These 3 websites are highly varied in demographics and well-known for politically charged content.

Of particular interest is the collection of posts with the inclusion of certain buzzwords or phrases associated with certain political leanings, such as "MAGA", "praxis", "cuck" or "liberal". As mentioned prior, I hope to find out whether or not high density of these terms is associated with political bubbles on these websites. I am also interested in how certain trends of language, such as leftist attempts at reclamation of many right-wing buzzwords, or tendency to use terms such as "liberal" as a pejorative amongst both the far-left and far-right, skew measurements of this.

My hope is to combine text-as-data analysis with social network analysis, in particular the social ties of Twitter users, and outreach and popularity of certain users measured by data such as follower count, number of retweets or number of upvotes. Thus far, there is not much in the way of causal analysis that I have planned, but exploration of how certain textual trends correlate with specific political behavior is a useful first step in assessing how social media influences our political process and the electorate.
