---
layout: post
title: "Reynolds: Exploring the World of Political Podcasts"
author: Nate Reynolds
date: 2021-02-14 12:24:54 -0500
categories: reynolds firstpost
---

## What's Your Research Question?

My research project will revolve around podcasts. The tentative research question is "What political patterns and coalitions exist between podcasts who interview the same guests?" although it could more efficiently be summarized as "What podcasts feature the same guests?". The research question might naturally evolve over the course of the project, but this is the direction I am moving in.

Podcasts are a large and growing segment of the American media market. Between April 2018 and January 2021, the total number of active shows on Apple Podcasts has increased incredibly from over 500,000 to over 1,750,000 (https://www.podcastinsights.com/podcast-statistics/). It is the ultimate decentralized media platform - anyone can publish a podcast at little to no cost - and those who can garner an audience in the competitive market have a uniquely persuasive power over their listeners. A dedicated fanbase will allow a podcaster to speak into their ear for hours at a time, sometimes multiple days a week. The obvious political distinctions between TV news channels like FOX News and MSNBC pale in comparison to the portfolio of specially-tailored political niches found in the podcast market. Listeners can hear whatever content they want, for free, regardless of time and space and regardless of the podcast producers' business legitimacy and intellectual credibility. As someone interested in politics - and a long-time listener of podcasts myself - this both scares and fascinates me. Despite the clear dangers, I also respect that there is a growing market for long-form discussions rather than quick commentary and sound-bites.

Many popular podcasts feature guest interviews on their show. Personally and anecdotally, I have noticed two patterns across these podcasts. First is that I notice the same guests appearing on different shows often within a short time-frame. Second is that guests brought onto shows often have their own podcast. Together, those two patterns have always made me interested in a potential network analysis - or even just a network visualization - of guest-feature collaboration between podcast producers. 

Part of this research project is to confirm or deny those curiosities of mine. However, I think this has a lot of relevance to social science and could unlock many more interesting research ideas. Podcasts are a major source of news and political opinion for a growing portion of Americans and people around the world. However, as far as I can tell, there is basically no academic research literature about podcasts as a form of influential media. My guess is that, much like network analyses of interest groups, such as in Grossman and Dominguez 2009 and Koger et al 2009, there will be two sharply partisan 'extended party networks' of different podcasts that frequently feature the same guests. However, as decentralized as they are, most podcasts would lack any formal relationship to the party organizations. I think a network of podcasts might better illustrate the fringes around the parties, as well as possible middle ground between them, than network analyses of formal interest groups and news outlets, which have been conducted before.

Why is this even relevant to text analysis? Firstly, because this data is to be found in text online. No dataset exists so far to conduct this research. Furthermore, guest features are not available in the official metadata of podcasts. In order to systematically identify what guests come on a podcast episode, I will need to parse through episode names and descriptions (which are available in the metadata) to identify names. This is possible with 'Named Entity Recognition' Python libraries such as SpaCy (just one I found through a brief Google search; I'm open to other suggestions on the best way to go about this). I assume that I will need to search around phrases such as "featuring", "joined by", "talk with", and "interview" to distinguish the name of guests in a podcast from names of people who are discussed in a podcast (otherwise I'll probably find a lot of Joe Biden and Donald Trump guest features). There will probably need to be some name cleaning to match names of the same person across different podcasts.

In this process, I hope to compile a dataset in which the observations are individual episodes of podcasts with interviews. Each observation will have a host show variable and a guest feature variable. This can be assembled into a matrix for network analysis. When I get to that point, I will have to decide whether or not to classify nodes as different shows, connected if they interview the same person, or to classify nodes as different people (a host or guest), connected if they appear on the same episode. In either case, there will probably be some frustrating data manipulation and data cleaning involved. 

I could also use word clouds to illustrate what words appear in podcast names and descriptions in different time periods or different genres. Once (and if) I finish the network analysis of podcasts which feature the same guests, I could also supplement the network analysis with word clouds of what words appear in the titles and descriptions of different podcast communities 

I plan on using the Spotify API for this project. There are APIs from other independent podcast databases which I may explore if Spotify does not work for me. However, this seems like a fairly accessible way to access bulk quantities of podcast-related metadata. I already created a developer account with Spotify but have not actually tried using it yet.

Given the immense number of podcasts out there, I will need to choose a realistic sample of episodes to research. My thought is to choose a finite time period to look at; for example, all episodes in a 2020, or maybe just a few months of 2020. I will also attempt to filter out podcasts with only a couple episodes or relatively few followers in order to focus on shows with a substantial presence.

This project is fundamentally more descriptive than causal, however, I may craft a more causation-minded research question as I collect more data and proceed with analysis. Right now, I am interested in what the networks of like-minded podcast look like. However, a basic causal question could be how the networks changed in a different time period; for example, before and after the 2020 Election, or before and after the original COVID outbreak in the United States.