---
layout: post
title: "Political Speech on Reddit (Tran-Trinh)"
author: Nathan Tran-Trinh
date: 2021-03-14 12:24:54 -0500
categories: trantrinh
---

Rodrigo Zamith, who teaches a separate class I'm taking this semester, informed me of the existence of the PushShift API, which serves as an archive of past Reddit submissions and comments across a number of years. This is likely to be of enormous service to my project ideas, as a very large portion of Reddit content has been deleted over time due to user account deletions and subreddit bans, both of which are frequently politically charged due to claims of censorship. 

Using this extractor, I obtained data from subreddits explored the last few weeks, as well as subreddits that are now defunct such as r/the_donald and r/chapotraphouse. The parameters within the extraction functions also allowed for these datasets to be separated by date ranges. There were however severe limitations with virtually every PushShift API for R that I found, all but one of them being slow to the point of a single query having to run for multiple hours and the lone one of acceptable speed limiting each dataframe to 100 results. Because of this issue, I created several dataframes for each combination of buzzword and subreddit, seperated by 6 months each as far back as June 2016 (or whenever the subreddit was created if later). Thus far, the complete list of subreddits and buzzwords explored is as followed:

* r/the_donald
* r/chapotraphouse
* r/politics
* r/neoliberal
* r/shitliberalssay
* r/conservative
* r/breadtube
* r/stupidpol

* cuck
* soyboy
* liberal
* socialist
* SJW
* Nazi
* fascist

Due to this recent development, I have for the time being decided to dedicate my efforts solely to analysis of Reddit content. The rate limitations for the Twitter API already made obtaining a significant amount of data unwieldly, and although PushShift also has an archive of Twitter content the API lacks the same functionality compared to that for Reddit. These plans may change in the future depending on later findings, however it is more likely that I will rather continue to explore more subreddits and more buzzwords.

Attempts to create wordclouds of each individual dataframe have caused me errors thus far, but I hope to fix that very soon, with the intention being noting differences in the way other words paired with buzzwords over time. I also desire to explore tonal changes in comments over time, as well as the popularity of certain buzzwords over time (notably during this search, the term soyboy had never been used prior to late 2017). The former is challenging and may only be able to be analyzed from a qualitative point-of-view, thus I am not fully confident I will get to it. The latter would require a different PushShift scraper than the one I have used thus far (rreddit) due to its dataframe size limitations. I am exploring if Python is superior to work with PushShift for extracting datasets due to this, but thus far have had installation issues with all APIs I could find. Furthermore, in exploring this I am searching for a way to find counts of the number of times a word appeared in a subreddit's comments without creating dataframes for the sake of tidyness of datea.